<chapter id="tutorials">
<title>Getting familiar with &step;: the tutorials</title> 
<para>The <menuchoice><guimenu>File</guimenu><guimenuitem>Open Tutorial...</guimenuitem></menuchoice> menu action brings you a file dialog where you can load &step; built-in tutorials. There are five tutorials and you will progressively learn how to interact with each of &step; element. The best is to start with the first tutorial by clicking on the file <filename>tutorial1.step</filename>. This will display Tutorial 1 in &step;.</para>
<note><para>If you do not see the tutorial properly you can try to zoom in to display it better.</para></note>

<para>The <guilabel>World</guilabel> panel on the right lists all the objects you have on your scene. By clicking on an object here, the <guilabel>Properties</guilabel> panel below displays this object properties. You can change the properties here by clicking on the one you want to modify.</para>

<para>Each tutorial consists in some text presenting the new elements and explaining their properties. Then you are asked to change some properties of the elements in order to achieve a new result of the experiment. </para>

<sect1 id="tutorial1">
<title>Tutorial 1: bodies and springs</title>
<para>This tutorial presents you bodies and springs and how to start your first simulation.</para>
<para>A physical body or body for short is an object which can be described by the theories of classical mechanics, or quantum mechanics, and experimented upon with physical instruments. This includes the determination of position, and in some cases the orientation in space, as well as means to change these, by exerting forces.</para>
<para>A spring is a flexible elastic object used to store mechanical energy.</para>
<para>The physical experiment in this tutorial represents two disks linked by a spring. Springs have an initial velocity in a tangential direction (the little blue arrows) allowing the disks to move when the simulation is run. The tutorial invites you to modify the spring stiffness and also to try to change the system experiment.</para>
<para>At the end of this tutorial you should be more familiar with &step; interface and you should also be able to easily change bodies properties.</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="tutorial2">
<title>Tutorial 2: controllers and graphs</title>
<para>You will learn more about controllers and graphs in this tutorial.</para>
<para>A controller is a device which allows you to graphically modify a property of a body or a spring. In the tutorial, the controller allows you to change the stifness of the spring "spring1". By moving the slider to the right or using the W key you can increase sprint1 stiffness value and by moving the slider to the left or using the Q key you can decrease it. Right-clicking on the controller brings you several context actions and the <guilabel>Configure Controller...</guilabel> dialog allows you to change each property of the controller.</para>
<para>Graphs allow you to graphically visualize the relationship between two variables. The example in the tutorial prints the evolution of the position of particle1 while time advances in world1. With a right click on a graph you can clear or delete the graph as well as edit the conguration dialog and change here all the proerties for this graph.</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="tutorial3">
<title>Tutorial 3: rigid bodies and tracers</title>
<para>Tutorial 3 presents you rigid bodies and tracers.</para>
<para>A rigid body is an idealization of a solid body of finite size in which deformation is neglected. In other words, the distance between any two given points of a rigid body remains constant in time regardless of external forces exerted on it.</para>
<para>A tracer is a tool which shows the trajectory of a given point on a rigid body.</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="tutorial4">
<title>Tutorial 4: motors and forces</title>
<para>You have two sorts of motors available in &step;: linear motors and circular motors. A linear motor applies a constant force to a given point on a body while a circular motor applies a constant angular momentum to a body.</para>
<para>Three different forces can be added to bodies: the weight force, the gravitation force and the Coulomb force. By default all forces are turned off in &step;. Coulomb force is a force which existed intrinsically between two charges.</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="tutorial5">
<title>Tutorial 5: joints</title>
<para>Joints are objects that attaches bodies to each other or to the background. You have a the followong joints in &step;: anchors, pins, sticks and ropes. An anchor is a joint that fixes position of the body. A pin is a joint that fixes one point of the body. A stick is a joint that fixes the distance between two points on two bodies.</para>
</sect1>

</chapter>
